.TH apport\-bug 1 "September 08, 2009" "Martin Pitt"

.SH NAME

apport\-bug \- file a bug report using Apport

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B apport\-bug

.B apport\-bug
.I symptom \fR|\fI pid \fR|\fI package \fR|\fI program path \fR|\fI .apport/.crash file

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B apport\-bug
reports problems to your distribution's bug tracking system,
using Apport to collect a lot of local information about your system to help
the developers to fix the problem and avoid unnecessary question/answer
turnarounds.

You should always start with running
.B apport\-bug
without arguments, which will present a list of known symptoms. This will
generate the most useful bug reports.

If there is no matching symptom, you need to determine the affected program or
package yourself. You can provide a package name or program name to
.B apport\-bug\fR,
e. g.:

.RS 4
.nf
apport\-bug firefox
apport\-bug /usr/bin/unzip
.fi
.RE

In order to add more information to the bug report that could
help the developers to fix the problem, you can also specify a process
ID instead:

.RS 4
.nf
$ pidof gnome-terminal
5139
$ apport\-bug 5139
.fi
.RE

As a special case, to report a bug against the Linux kernel, you do not need to
use the full package name (such as linux-image-2.6.28-4-generic); you can just use

.RS 4
.nf
apport\-bug linux
.fi
.RE

to report a bug against the currently running kernel.

Finally, you can use this program to report a previously stored crash or bug report:

.RS 4
.nf
apport\-bug /var/crash/_bin_bash.1000.crash
apport\-bug /tmp/apport.firefox.332G9t.apport
.fi
.RE

(Bug reports can be written to a file with
.B apport\-cli\fR.)

.B apport\-bug
detects whether KDE or Gnome is running and calls
.B apport\-gtk
or 
.B apport\-kde
accordingly. If neither is available, or the session does not run
under X11, it calls
.B apport\-cli
for a command-line client.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B APPORT_IGNORE_OBSOLETE_PACKAGES
Apport refuses to create bug reports if the package or any dependency is not
current. If this environment variable is set, this check is waived. Experts who
will thoroughly check the situation before filing a bug report can define this
in their
.B ~/.bashrc
or temporarily when calling the apport frontend (\-cli, \-gtk, or \-kde).

.TP
.B APPORT_STAGING
When reporting bugs to Launchpad (default in Ubuntu), use
.B staging.launchpad.net
instead of the real production instance. You should use this when testing new
hooks or new functionality, to avoid sending uninteresting bug mail to
developers.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR apport\-cli (1)

.SH AUTHOR
.B apport
and the accompanying tools are developed by Martin Pitt
<martin.pitt@ubuntu.com>.
