.TH apport\-cli 1 "August 01, 2007" "Martin Pitt"

.SH NAME

apport\-cli, apport\-gtk, apport\-kde \- Apport user interfaces for reporting problems

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B apport\-cli

.B apport\-cli 
[ \fB\-\-save \fIfile\fR ]
.I symptom \fR|\fI pid \fR|\fI package \fR|\fI program path \fR|\fI .apport/.crash file

.B apport\-cli \-f

.B apport\-cli \-f \-p
.I package
.B \-P
.I pid

.B apport\-cli \-u
.I report-number

Same options/arguments for
.B apport\-gtk
and
.B  apport\-kde\fR.

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B apport 
automatically collects data from crashed processes and compiles a problem
report in 
.I /var/crash/\fR. This is a command line frontend for reporting
those crashes to the developers. It can also be used to report bugs
about packages or running processes. 

If symptom scripts are available, it can also be given the name of a symptom,
or be called with just
.B -f
to display a list of known symptoms.

When being called without any options, it processes the pending crash reports
and offers to report them one by one. You can also display the entire report to
see what is sent to the software developers.

When being called with exactly one argument and no option,
.B apport\-cli
uses some heuristics to find out "what you mean" and reports a bug against the
given symptom name, package name, program path, or PID. If the argument is a
.B .crash 
or 
.B .apport
file, it uploads the stored problem report to the bug tracking system.

For desktop systems with a graphical user interface, you should
consider installing the GTK or KDE user interface (apport-gtk or
apport-kde). They accept the very same options and arguments.
.B apport\-cli
is mainly intended to be used on servers.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-f, \-\-file\-bug
Report a (non-crash) problem. If neither
.B \-\-package\fR,
.B \-\-symptom\fR,
or
.B \-\-pid
are specified, then it displays a list of available symptoms. If none are
available, it aborts with an error.

This will automatically attach information about your operating system
and the package version etc. to the bug report, so that the developers
have some important context.

.TP
.B \-s \fIsymptom\fR, \fB\-\-symptom\fR=\fIsymptom
When being used in
.B \-\-file\-bug
mode, specify the symptom to report the problem about.

.TP
.B \-p \fIpackage\fR, \fB\-\-package\fR=\fIpackage
When being used in
.B \-\-file\-bug
mode, specify the package to report the problem against.

.TP
.B \-P \fIpid\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR=\fIpid
When being used in
.B \-\-file\-bug
mode, specify the PID (process ID) of a running program to report the
problem against. This can be determined with e. g.
.B ps -ux\fR.

.TP
.B \-c \fIreport\fR, \fB\-\-crash\-file\fR=\fIreport
Upload a previously processed stored report in an arbitrary file location.
This is useful for copying a crash report to a machine with internet
connection and reporting it from there. Files must end in
.B .crash
or
.B .apport\fR.

.TP
.B \-u \fIreport-number\fR, \fB\-\-update\-report \fIreport-number
Run apport information collection on an already existing problem report. The
affected package is taken from the report by default, but you can explicitly
specify one with \-\-package to collect information for a different package
(this is useful if the report is assigned to the wrong package).

.TP
.B \-\-save \fIfilename
In \-\-file\-bug mode, save the collected information into a file instead of
reporting it. This file can then be reported with \-\-crash-file later on.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B APPORT_IGNORE_OBSOLETE_PACKAGES
Apport refuses to create bug reports if the package or any dependency is not
current. If this environment variable is set, this check is waived. Experts who
will thoroughly check the situation before filing a bug report can define this
in their
.B ~/.bashrc
or temporarily when calling the apport frontend (\-cli, \-gtk, or \-kde).

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/share/apport/symptoms/*.py
Symptom scripts. These ask a set of interactive questions to determine the
package which is responsible for a particular problem. (For some problems like
sound or storage device related bugs there are many places where things can go
wrong, and it's not immediately obvious for a bug reporter where the problem is.)

.SH AUTHOR
.B apport
and the accompanying tools are developed by Martin Pitt
<martin.pitt@ubuntu.com>.
