.TH dupdp\-admin 1 "August 01, 2007" "Martin Pitt"

.SH NAME

dupdb\-admin \- Manage the duplicate database for apport\-retrace.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B dupdb\-admin \-f
.I dbpath
.B status

.B dupdb\-admin \-f
.I dbpath
.B dump

.B dupdb\-admin \-f
.I dbpath
.B changeid
.I oldid newid

.SH DESCRIPTION

.BR apport\-retrace (1)
has the capability of checking for duplicate bugs (amonst other
things). It uses an SQLite database for keeping track of master bugs.
.B dupdb\-admin
is a small tool to manage that database.

The central concept in that database is a "crash signature", a string
that uniquely identifies a particular crash. It is built from the
executable path name, the signal number or exception name, and the
topmost functions of the stack trace.

The database maps crash signatures to the 'master' crash id and thus
can close duplicate crash reports with a reference to that master ID.
It also tracks the status of crashes (open/fixed in a particular
version) to be able to identify regressions.

.SH MODES

.TP
.B status
Print general status of the duplicate db. For now, it only shows the
time when the database was "consolidated" last, i. e. when the bug
states (open/fixed) in the SQLite database where updated to the actual
states in the bug tracking system.

.TP
.B dump
Print a list of all database entries.

.TP
.B changeid
Change the associated crash ID for a particular crash.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-f \fIpath\fR, \fB\-\-database-file\fR=\fIpath
Instead of processing the new crash reports in
.I /var/crash/\fR,
report a particular report in an arbitrary file location.
This is useful for copying a crash report to a machine with internet
connection and reporting it from there. This defaults to
.I ~./apport_duplicates.db\fR.

.SH AUTHOR
.B apport
and the accompanying tools are developed by Martin Pitt
<martin.pitt@ubuntu.com>.
